# Catalyst Circle Meeting 5 - Thursday, 9th September 2021 at 17.00 UTC

## Attendees

- Dor
- Dean
- Felix
- Victor
- Lauris
- Juliane
- David

## Opening, Announcements and Expectations Alignment (10 min)

- Stephen taking notes - taking secretary role today 

### (00:00) Check-in - All - 5 min
### (00:05) Revise agenda and align expectations - All - 5 min
## Updates on CC actions (35 min) -> Update Trello Board Accordingly
### (00:15) Trello board guideline - Dor and Victor - 10 min

Source document : https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OPqz62i6qNzhIHhjnTUjN3MJDavG6VOAoahVs5uZmEI/edit#heading=h.4o4a23sgthcs

- Tracking problems and actions - Dor & Victor - because Circle members did not have clarity
- Opportunity to define how to move elements
- Make list Explicit 
- Modify it and evolve it over time
- Constantly iterate over time - to leverage what we can do
- Starts with problem sensing column - go back to your group - each has own methodology which we sourced problem
- Capacity problems - so limited ourselves to 1 problem per group
- To accommodate our capabilities
- We talked about methodologies - we invite others to share what they did with their group
- Assign yourself ticket as problem owner and move problem across board
- Problem owner writes out in structured form and feeds back to another member
- Put it problem backlog - present it at Circle meeting - discuss modifications 
- 360 feedback from other members
- Suggest renaming columns
- Present to TH - talk about communicating and amplifying message
- Define strategy how we solving the problem within circle 
- Endorse proposal
- Boost current proposals
- Facilitating problem sensing sessions
- Present it to community 
- Goes to shared with community section of board
- Responsibility moves to tracking - any duplication, lack of activity
- Open new ticket - change from problem statement to proposed solution
- Problems remain and solutions move on
- Picked up by community or circle
- Once solution built solution moved to prototyping section
- Once results being produced move to validation section
- Track whether we integrate with community 
- Either integrated or put in lessons learnt
- Initiate new Catalyst members about what worked 

- Circle reset - Reset Trello board at this point 
- Give rest Circle to new Circle V2

- From John Buck to Everyone:  06:22 PM
- - Just a note: “Shared with Community” could be “Shared with IOG” or “Shared with Cardano Foundation”.  E.g., if there is something that IOG is doing that is having an adverse impact, the presentation might be given to the IOG manager in charge of the problematic policies/activities.

From Victor Corcino to Everyone:  06:23 PM
- I'd say that IOG/CF are part of the community as well. Community covers everyone involved.
- Maybe we should define this somewhere

- From John Buck to Everyone:  06:25 PM
- Good point. Might be more than one presentation: in Town Hall as well as other appropriate forum

- From Dor Garbash to Everyone:  06:29 PM
- I agree - we need to establish a communication line with IOG/CF as often they don’t track townhalls.

- Victor
- We were going to apply at this meeting but not enough time
- Juliane
- Would like to look at it to give appreciation of Trello guidelines
- https://trello.com/b/DRBO6qyF/catalyst-prioritized-problems
- Trello board : https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OPqz62i6qNzhIHhjnTUjN3MJDavG6VOAoahVs5uZmEI/edit#heading=h.4o4a23sgthcs
- Related problem statement: (CC) Tracking problems and actions
## (00:25) Updates on new CA/vCA reward model - Victor - 5 min
- Related problem statement: (CAs) CAs/vCAs rewarding system
- Keeping track of comments - feedback was generally good 
- Regarding Trello Board - problem is in “Prototyping” - change it to validation when it 

## (00:30) CA Outreach & Onboarding campaign - Victor and Felix - 10 min
- Related problem statement: (CAs) Risk of not enough CAs/vCAs
- Related problem statement: (T&M/ FP) Catalyst Onboarding
- Take a certain focus on - lets start onboarding - outreach campaign - IOG did outreach - like KEWW who did video, School do onboarding and ATH - after 1 week we have 100 sign ups - not ready to present it - Victor we need to refine - Felix
- WE can use this pipeline for other roles in the ecosystem - Felix
- 1100 CA’s registered in Ideascale - Dor 
- 800 CA’s in TG channel - Dor 
- 100 registered to onboarding workshops - Dor
- To find first draft for a pipeline - can be improved over time - new first draft - Felix
- Use same scheme for VCAS, Challenge teams - 
- Can we use for Challenge Teams and replicate for Fund 7 - how do we avoid next circle being in emergency mode - Dor
- Define baseline defining responsibilities - so crucial to process that IOHK would accomplish in team - Julianne 
- We have our internal logistic machine - should be decentralised - starting with shared responsibility then handing over - Dor 
- How to do it - Agree we need to do this - Julianne
- New people for Circle v2- but platforms will be in place - Felix
- Public dashboard - so people can identify risks - Dor
- Playbook - insight stage - critical actions that need to be taken - Dor 
- Release more engagement data - Dor
- Timetable of community responsibilities - Dor
- Retrospective week - what are we doing together - Dor 
- From John Buck to Everyone:  06:40 PM
- Having staggered terms on the CC would help carry forward the group memory. EG, only have three people rotate off in November
- Then Trello board projects can be handed off to the new members (maybe with overlap with the former members)
## (00:40) Updates on Challenge team - Rapid Funding Challenge - Felix - 10 min
- Related problem statement: (CC) Faster funding for Catalyst projects
- Enable faster mechanisms for the community - the challenge team went in one direction and was not what Circle expecting - Felix
- Busy month for people in the network - who was the problem owner - Felix - Lauris ? - Dor 
- We want the problem owner - fillet the problem - work together with the challenge team - Dor 
- Supposed to target specific issue - and was a risk of losing focus by shifting onto other problem - Dor
- Great pilot - lets see if it gets voted and has impact - Dor
- Help the team connect to people on ground - we are just mirror of the people - Dor
- We had similar issue in last 2 weeks - Victor

### (00:50) Updates on CC Facilitator & Secretary teams - Felix - 5 min
- Related problem statement: N/A
- Last few weeks people participated in 
- 1 person for each function Secretary & Facilitator  backed by team 
- 4 Secretaries and 3 Facilitator 
- Could be an issue when it comes to funding - needs more focus on roles and responsibilities  - Dor 

### (00:55) Discussing/finalizing the CCv2 budget - Lauris - 10 min
- Related problem statement: (CC) CC is not resourced to accomplish its goals.
- Last TH presented budgeting - not a lot interest - tried to squeeze out - did some changes - put some lump sum s- easier to calculate - did not account for more people coming on board - some miscommunication - proposal placeholder archived still left hanging
- The experiment failed - and good to talk about it - withdrawn both - we return to theme of we assign owners - opted to not submit - look at way to create baseline for funding - Julianne
- We need to work on miscommunication and who is on charge on a specific task - Lauris 

### (01:05) CC Website & Email Accounts - Felix - 5 min
- Related problem statement: Improve Awareness
## New topics for discussion (5 min)
### (01:10) Proposal: What do we want to do for Fund6 retrospective week? - Dor - 5 min

- Postpone to next meeting 
## Next CC priority and update Trello (10 min)
### (01:15) Choose a problem statement to be prioritized in the next 2 weeks, until CC meeting 5 - All - 10 min
- Who has sense of ownership & capacity to drive one of these problems- Dor
- Suggestion - Dean possible scams by ADA holders - Victor
- Yes I am on board for that - removed it because there was already strong focus on it - Dean
- Maybe we can already use information out there -build on that - Victor 
- Any other comments / suggestions ? Victor 
## Open Conversation (20 min)
### (01:25) Open Conversation. Topics:
- CC and lessons learned.
- This is an opportunity to learn - was a group failure - risk when we try to move too fast - we should try to identify what went wrong - try to avoid same mistake in future - we could submit a proposal in Fund 7 for retrospective  payment - not going to be guaranteed  - Victor
- I suppose we can discuss this - Lauris
- This is bad - volunteers causing a continuation of volunteerism - Dor 
- Use special powers to modify proposal outside of timetable- not viable for Circle do without funding - Dor
- Submit modified proposal ask for IOHK to accept it - Dor
- Willing to do it - do it today - or appoint someone else to take responsibility - Dor
- I can do it - get right into the document - I would place it in decentralised decision making - return to definition of circle - not reinventing the wheel - Julianne
- In terms of operation - write out draft - distribute to circle - submit it out of band - too big a deal to live with consequences - Dor
- Becomes pressure to deliver on time - there are expectation - we drive in a dangerous direction - circle members have other commitments - Felix 
- We are here because we have passion and motivation - requires self criticism as well - where can I add most value - what is Circle requiring - I think we might lose impact if we have to comply or fit in something - should responsibility be concentrated or distributed to a larger team - what is mode that is best for circle - what is best for community - Julianne
- For next Circle - we have an idea of what is expected of them - the commitments -  Lauris 
- I meet with Nori - from, search committee - to find replacement for me - the next person have a lot experience with Ideascale - should be able to commit 10 to 20 hours a week - Dean 
- This depends what we consider the most value - you are going to leave out certain people - Julienne
- We are figuring out how much time it takes to participate in Circle - we should announce for next circle - we should write down what kind of knowledge need - Victor
- We should treat it like a job requirements - Dean
- Could use full time facilitator to offload these responsibilities - Lauris
- This experience is actually a gift - as a first iteration we are doing amazing - the goal is to learn - sometimes to fail - next stage is to capture lessons - implemented to next circle - prepare list of recommendations - dedicate some time to review them - do full on retrospective - Dor 
- We need a shared agreement on what happened and each propose how to improve for next session - under pressures of time and uncertainty a small team could not subject proposal - Dor 
- Extend to lack of will to make it happen for the group - I was clear on completing the proposal - Julanne
- Assignment of responsibility was not clear - Julainne
- Either we work with this shared understanding of the issue - end of the meeting - Dor 
- you could turn this round into a cumulative statement. (If you don’t know what I mean be that, we can discuss later)  (Appreciating your presence!) - John Buck
- Given the problem statement we talked about - what is the solution ? - Dor 
- We could discuss in Telegram and get Stephen to capture it - Dor 
- We would push the proposal - use Dor superpower - I am concerned how this is perceived by the community - I know it's crucial - but nevertheless - Julianne 
- For me personally - it would feel really weird - we failed - then we failed - important to say Felix
- There is a trade off - every time there is some special action - we need to explain - if rationale are misaligned with larger picture - we could lose legitimacy - on the other hand the intention to decentralise - to move power to community - looking at big picture - next month to year we want to create best conditions for distributed governance -Dor 
- If you think the final outcome would be very different - we should discuss - knowing this is human error - should we just accept that ? - Dor 
- If we receive interim funding - who are working for - Lauris
- Looking forward to a solution - what if this pushes to a baseline - so our pipeline is in place for next Circle to execute - more natural to have retrospective funds - process of assessing ourselves - evolving with each proposal - Julianne 
- Would you take a job - come work for m e- maybe we pay for you later - Dor
- We are at risk anyway - because funding is not guaranteed - Julianne 
- Next Circle would have that assurance - if we submit out of band - Dor
- Let us go not too much into hypotheticals  -Felix
- I do not know how we get consensus on this - David
- The trade off - posting a few hours after deadline - outcom,es minor - leaving circle unfunded = serious long-term repercussion - I hope people here can see bigger picture and where we are headed - it is not on you its on IOHK - Dor  
- I agree with Dor - it will be a chain reaction of things that will happen - if do not push this through this time- can we agree we do to do this for next Circlein FInd 7 - Dean
- Latest tomorrow for out of band submission - Dor
- Would do it in a Google doc - Julianne
- Write down rubrics in google doc - IOG admin woul;d submit - Dor 
- Quick survey of individual position - Dor 
- I will be in if majority in - Julianne 
- We go to community and ask for their consent - Dor
- Tie in - that will not happen again - Dean
- OK we agree to submit a draft - Felix
- Let's be transparent about it - was a hard trade off - we are still experimenting - we have to give the system a chance to succeed - never a purist approach - Dor
- We trust you as well - Julianne 
- If there is blowback - how do we handle it ? - Dean
- The community wants decentralised governance and for circle to succeed - Dor
- It comes down to intention and that feels good - J
- There is no guarantee will be funded - so that is a reassurance as well - David

- From John Buck to Everyone:  07:02 PM
- The secretary’s role can include tracking critical items like the CCv2 budget and alerting everyone if it appears that there are critical deadlines about to be missed.

- From John Buck to Everyone:  07:47 PM
- Could there be a special meeting on this question tomorrow. It’s very crucial

## Meeting feedback and buffer time (20 min)
### (01:45) Fill out feedback form about the meeting productivity - 5 min
### (01:50) Buffer time / Open dialogue - All - 10 min






